Hello everyone and welcome to the template inheritance code examples lecture.
We're going to be cutting through the topics we just previously discussed for a inheritance.
Let's hop over to the editor and get started.
All right so here I am using the learning underscore templates project we created in the previous coding
lecture for the section of the course.
Remember that we created this base team File.
Let's show you how you can create some typical looking based thrist him code and then use it and extend
it to the other HDMI files we have in this application such as this index file other HCM L and then
even the relative u r l template.
OK so in 0 all team files you always want to have this line of code be first and it's dot type T.M..
So that always needs to come first.
In an time I'll file and you can get it easily just by typing HTL and hitting enter.
That will always be the first line no matter what kind of template tags are using.
Again this should always be on line number one.
OK.
So let's make sure that we have bootstrap linked across our entire web site.
The way to do this easily is instead of having that link and every single that a steam file we just
put it in the base that each time l file.
I want to copy and paste this.
Either you can do either from the notes or from Bootstrap dot com.
OK.
So there's going to bootstrap there's my drift to it.
And again this could also be a link to a local file underneath templates.
You could have CSSA and then link it to bootstrap locally.
Truly up to you whether you want to link it online or link it locally.
It's a little faster if you link it locally specially when you begin to deploy your projects.
Plus you can always make sure that you're not dependent on someone else hosting this all right now inside
this body let's create a navigation bar so we do this by calling it now.
And I'm going to pass in the classes and I don't have these memorized.
I'm just copying and pasting these from the notes and also from the bootstrap bootstrap documentation.
So I would not expect you to just knowingly know all the classes like I'm typing them here so feel free
to just copy and paste from the notes or type along with me but the class from the nav bar that I'm
using is nav bar space nav bar defaults and then nav bar static top and then I going to put this that
comes next inside of a container class and then will have an unordered list.
And this is the stuff that's actually inside that nav bar.
So I will give this unordered list a class of NAV space nav bar nav and then inside the sort of list
I go to have list items will be anchor tags and they're going to link to different parts of that page.
But these are going to have a class of.
And this first one is going to be the actual brand page so nav bar dash brands and pretty much just
always takes you back to the home page.
So we won't mess around with the references right now.
We'll set up the template inheritance first and then we'll come back and review how to do template or
else with these rough tags.
But inside of this anger attack I'm just going to say brand save that and then create an other list
item.
In other a..
And this.
And let's actually instead of putting this class in the list item let's put it inside the anchor type.
So a little cleaner.
There we go.
And then this anchor tag is also going to have a class and this class is going to be equal to a nav
bar dash link class and we'll have this link to the admin page and let's copy and paste this create
one more you know what we're gonna do here is have this link to the other page number we have that other
that it's female file.
Ok so that all goes inside this container div and all of that is going inside this nav bar.
Perfect.
And then since we're using bootstrap it would be nice is making sure anything else I put in the body
is already inside a container so I don't need to call that.
So what I'm going to do is create a DIV tag that says container.
And again all this sort of styling and class thing that's really going to be up to you when you're creating
your own project what you think looks good.
You tested on mobile devices on tablets see what else looks good etc..
So definitely don't take this as absolutely 100 percent must do really all of this stuff at a certain
point becomes your own personal choice and personal styling depending on what your Web site is going
to be used for.
So right now I have everything that I want to display across every single page and every single page
on my web site had this nav bar and have its body contained in a container and have the link to bootstrap
which means I need to set up my actual template tags that will define this.
So we'll call this block body underscore block and then we'll write a comment here anything outside
of this will be inherit inherited if you extend.
Typically you will have this comment but just typing in there you can get an idea.
And then finally want to end the block so we use and block for this.
And if we install some Django plugins for Adam text editor a lot of the stuff is syntax highlighted
and done automatically for you.
OK so basically we're seeing here is everything outside of this is going to be inherited when we call
extend on it.
So let's actually practice that.
So I will come to my other large team M-file and this is where it gets really cool.
Right now I have a bunch of stuff in this age Tim L file but really the only thing that's unique here
is the fact that it says welcome to other.
So all I need to do is make sure that the doctype HVM code is there I can delete everything else and
then just extend my template so it will say appear on the second line.
Extends and then pass in the file path to that template which is under templates.
And then I call basic app slash based dot HTL.
And so you know now that I could have various template files as my base template even across different
applications across the template folder and I just need to make sure that I call the right one and extend
the right one that we are not just limited to the one based on each team.
OK so once we've done the extension there what I do is call this tag a call block
body block and this matches basically what I had and based on each T.M. that's this guy.
But now instead of everything being outside everything's going to be inside.
So that says welcome to other.
And then let's say this is an example of template inheritance inheritance and then finally I'm going
to close this off with an end block.
And that's it.
Now this other than a stem cell file is ready to go.
Key things to note here is doc type always line number one then call the extends on whatever base that
each team M-file looking for then a call block the body block and then whatever content you want there
and then you can end the block.
And that's basically it.
You can actually see that.
Now the template tags when they were confusing at first we were first to learn jingo.
Now they actually look way cleaner and more readable than the other HCM Ilja we had before.
And this is really the power behind temple inheritance.
So let's do this on another page.
For example our home page which is index studies T.M..
So again I can just get rid of all this other HTL code since that's already taken care of for me.
I have doc type H T M L I need to extend from my actual base or a small file so I say extends that in
quotes where it is under the template file which in this case it's basic app slash base.
But each team L.
So you can see you actually don't even need to call it baseline C.M..
By convention it usually is called that but you could have named this whatever you wanted.
Then again I pasan that body block.
So here I call block body underscore block and the indentation is actually not necessary but it definitely
helps with the readability.
So I encourage you to try your best to try to keep formatted in readable code and then says welcome
to index.
And I'll say something like this is index that each T.M. page showing save that.
And then we have that body block let's end the block so here we'll call and block save that and now
it's actually run this and see what we get.
So say Python managed up PI.
We're on server and to make sure we didn't make any mistakes.
OK.
So I'm going to copy this and bring in over my browser and I can see here.
I had this nice looking at bar and it says welcome to index index page html page showing.
Perfect.
Now let's check out the other page.
So that was basic app slash other enter and out says welcome to other.
This is an example of Temple inheritance SUNO here my web site looks really nice and clear.
I have this nav bar showing across all the pages.
But right now if I click on these links nothing's actually happening.
Let's use the templates that we learned about in the previous lectures of the section to actually make
these two different pages.
So let's map brand to the home page.
Adam into the admin page and then other to the other page.
So we'll come back here and this is what we're going to do.
We're going to come back to baseline age T.M. and appear where it's at.
A riff on the brand abdomen and other will pasand those template tags.
Those are all templates.
So for the brand page will have the index one and this should feel just like review because we essentially
already did all this in the relative your templates file.
So say you are all here and then just pasand index as a single string for our home page then for Tref
what I'm going to do is this links to the admin page.
Remember I call your L and then admen colon index and Lumix for Helmick quotes in there.
So this is all wrapped in single quotes member to be careful with spaces there.
And then again we'll call your L and in this case this other page is under my basic app had a set that
had a set that app name variable and then it's the name other.
So let's save this.
Bring back our browser and refresh it if I bring it in.
Now I can click on the things to take me to brand take me to other and I can see as I'm clicking on
it it's taking me and it really has the feel of a real Web site now where there's a nav bar that's taking
me to all the pages across the Web site and is calling them using your old template tagging.
And if I click on admin it's going to take me to the added and page.
Now note that the nav bar goes away here because I didn't actually go into adman's h Tam l file and
edit it.
And honestly you shouldn't really be doing that.
We'll talk about customizing the Django adamant interface.
But as far as like styling of the abdomen and having a nav bar there that's really not necessary and
that's not really the purpose of the jingo administration view.
That's more for the ailing or for models but we'll talk about Django.
Adam and customization and a feature section.
OK.
So that's really all we had to cover.
Again the main thing to note here is you have a base that each team M-file always have this doctype
HCM as the first line in your ace html files no matter if their base Steimle or their things that are
extending that bassée smell.
But then you have everything you want to be extended across all your pages outside of these two key
tags.
And that's the block body block and block.
You can also have other blocks such as like a head block or whatever you want to call them.
And then the relationship between base on each team.
And the other pages is actually very clear.
It's essentially just the reverse of one of the reliance on other Eastham mail you get rid of all the
time.
Besides the doctype you extend from whatever base that he's to himself file you want to reference.
Then you call block in this case body block because you have body block here and then whatever you want
inside of that and block and everything outside it's going to be extended just like the base e-mail
here.
Hopefully this is a pretty straightforward application of template inheritance.
All right thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.